docs(setup): add guide for using custom upstream Envoy images (#844)
kgateway-dev/kgateway.dev: assets/docs/pages/setup/customize/envoy-image.md

> Use this guide to build a custom envoy-wrapper image on top of any upstream Envoy release (for example, to pick up a CVE patch) and point kgateway at it without waiting for an official kgateway release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build a custom `envoy-wrapper` image on top of any upstream Envoy release and use it in your gateway proxies. For example, this process can be useful to apply CVE fixes that were released upstream, but are not yet released in kgateway.  
```

## How it works {#how-it-works}

> kgateway's data plane isn't a plain Envoy binary. It bundles two extra components on top of upstream Envoy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kgateway data plane isn't a plain Envoy binary. It bundles two extra components on top of upstream Envoy:
```

> - **`envoyinit`**: a Go binary that runs as PID 1, manages the Envoy process lifecycle, and injects bootstrap configuration from xDS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`envoyinit`**: A Go binary that runs as PID 1, manages the Envoy process lifecycle, and injects bootstrap configuration from xDS.
```

> - **`librust_module.so`**: a Rust dynamic module that powers kgateway's transformation engine (`rustformation`) and other data-plane features. Envoy loads this `.so` at startup through its Dynamic Modules API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`librust_module.so`**: A Rust dynamic module that powers kgateway's transformation engine (`rustformation`) and other data-plane features. Envoy loads this `.so` module at startup through its Dynamic Modules API.
```

Reviewer: should this say Dynamic Modules ABI?

> Because the Dynamic Modules ABI is tied to a specific Envoy minor version, you can't just swap in a plain upstream Envoy image. The module and the image need to be built together. The `envoy-wrapper-docker` Makefile target handles this: it compiles the Rust module against the Envoy SDK and layers it on top of whatever base image you pass in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the Dynamic Modules ABI is tied to a specific Envoy minor version, you can't swap in a plain upstream Envoy image. Instead, you must build the module and image together. The `envoy-wrapper-docker` Makefile target handles this: it compiles the Rust module against the Envoy SDK and layers it on top of whatever base image you pass in.
```

## Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

> - A clone of the `kgateway` repository at the **same version** as the kgateway control plane running in your cluster. The repository version determines which Rust module is compiled, and that module must match your control plane.

Reviewer: Can you provide actual git clone steps

Also, can you make it clearer what this actually means? For example, if I am running 2.2.0, what would I do? do I check out the 2.2.x LTS branch? or do I first need to upgrade to the latest patch and then get this branch?

> - Docker with [BuildKit / `buildx`](https://docs.docker.com/buildx/working-with-buildx/) support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set up a Docker engine with [BuildKit / `buildx`](https://docs.docker.com/buildx/working-with-buildx/) support. For example, you can install the [Docker Desktop app](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/). 
```

> - A container registry that your cluster can pull from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set up a container registry that your cluster can pull from and connect to it. 
```

> - The Rust toolchain is managed automatically by `rustup` using the `rust-toolchain.toml` file in the repository. You don't need to install it yourself.

Reviewer: does this require a binary to be installed?

> ## Compatibility {#compatibility}

Reviewer: move this section above before you begin

The Rust dynamic module is compiled against the `envoy-proxy-dynamic-modules-rust-sdk`, which is pinned to the same Envoy version that kgateway targets in a given release. This means:

- **Patch-version bumps are safe.** The Dynamic Modules ABI is stable within a minor release. If kgateway targets `v1.37.2`, you can safely use `v1.37.3` or any other `v1.37.x` patch.
- **Minor-version bumps aren't a simple image swap.** Going from `v1.37.x` to `v1.38.x` means updating the SDK pin and rebuilding the module. That's a full Envoy upgrade at the kgateway source level, not something you'd do with this guide.

If you are unsure which Envoy minor version your kgateway release targets, check the `ENVOY_IMAGE` variable at the top of the project `Makefile`.

## Step 1: Build the wrapper image {#build}

> From the root of your kgateway clone, run `make envoy-wrapper-docker` with the upstream Envoy image you want and the output registry you control.

Reviewer: can you make these actual steps with 
1. Set the following environment variables. 
    - `ENVOY_IMAGE`: The upstream Envoy image that you want to use as the base image. 
    - `IMAGE_REGISTRY`: The path to the container registry that you want to use to push your custom `envoy-wrapper` image to. 
    - `VERSION`: The image version tag that you want to use for your custom image, such as `v2.3.0-custom`.

```sh
export ENVOY_IMAGE=docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v1.37.3
export IMAGE_REGISTRY=registry.example.com/myorg

> export VERSION=v2.3.0-custom

Reviewer: we need an explanation of what the VERSION is used for

> make envoy-wrapper-docker

Reviewer: make this its own step

2. Run the `make envoy-wrapper-docker` make target to generate .....
    ```sh
    make envoy-wrapper-docker
    ```

```

> What this does under the hood:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command completes the following tasks:
```

> 1. Compiles `librust_module.so` from `internal/envoy_modules/` using `cargo-zigbuild`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Builds the Rust dynamic module (`librust_module.so`) from `internal/envoy_modules/` by using `cargo-zigbuild`.
```

> 2. Starts a new image `FROM` the upstream Envoy image you picked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Creates a Dockerfile that sets the `ENVOY_IMAGE` as the base image (`FROM` entry).
```

> 3. Copies the compiled `.so`, the `envoyinit` binary, and the entrypoint script into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Copies the compiled `.so` library, `envoyinit` binary, and entrypoint script to the output directory. 
```

> 4. Tags the result as `$IMAGE_REGISTRY/envoy-wrapper:$VERSION`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Builds the image with `docker buildx build` and tags the image as `$IMAGE_REGISTRY/envoy-wrapper:$VERSION`.
```

> By default, the build targets your host machine's architecture. To build for `amd64` explicitly (for example, when running on an arm64 laptop):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the build targets your host machine's architecture. To build for `amd64` architectures explicitly, such as when running on an `arm64` laptop, set the `GOARCH` environment variable as shown in the following example: 
```

```sh
GOARCH=amd64 ENVOY_IMAGE=... IMAGE_REGISTRY=... VERSION=... make envoy-wrapper-docker

> ```

Reviewer: add a verification step that shows that the image is available locally

## Step 2: Push the image {#push}

```sh
docker push registry.example.com/myorg/envoy-wrapper:v2.3.0-custom
```

> If your cluster pulls from a private registry, [set up image pull secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/) on the proxy pods. You can add them with the `podTemplate.imagePullSecrets` field in {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayparameters.md" >}}.

Reviewer: this should go into before you begin where you describe setting up the registry

> ## Step 3: Create a GatewayParameters resource {#gateway-parameters}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Customize the Envoy image {#envoy-image}
```

Reviewer: combine step 3 and step 4 here with actual steps.

| `repository` | Image name, typically `envoy-wrapper` |
| `tag` | Image tag |
| `digest` | Optional. Use instead of or alongside `tag` to pin to an exact image digest |
| `pullPolicy` | Optional. Defaults to `IfNotPresent` |

## Step 4: Reference the GatewayParameters from your Gateway {#gateway}

Create or update your Gateway resource to reference the {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayparameters.md" >}} you just created.

```yaml
kubectl apply -f- <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: my-gateway
  namespace: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
spec:
  gatewayClassName: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayclass.md" >}}
  infrastructure:
    parametersRef:
      group: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayparam-group.md" >}}
      kind: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayparameters.md" >}}
      name: custom-envoy-image
  listeners:
    - name: http
      protocol: HTTP
      port: 80
      allowedRoutes:
        namespaces:
          from: All
EOF
```

When kgateway reconciles this Gateway, it creates a proxy Deployment with the custom image. Existing proxy pods roll over automatically.

## Apply to all gateways by default {#default}

> If you want every Gateway that uses the `kgateway` GatewayClass to pick up the custom image (instead of referencing the {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayparameters.md" >}} per Gateway), you can point the GatewayClass at it with the `gatewayClassParametersRefs` Helm value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of referencing the same {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayparameters.md" >}} resource in each Gateway, you can configure the `{{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayclass.md" >}}` GatewayClass with your custom Envoy image by using the `gatewayClassParametersRefs.kgateway` Helm value. This way, all gateway proxies that use this GatewayClass are automatically deployed with the custom Envoy image. 
```

```yaml
# values.yaml
gatewayClassParametersRefs:
  kgateway:
    name: custom-envoy-image
    namespace: {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}}
```

> 

Reviewer: make these steps and add commands for each. Steps should look similar to this:
1. Get the current values of your kgateway installation. 
2. Configure the {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayclass.md" >}}` GatewayClass with the {{< reuse "docs/snippets/gatewayparameters.md" >}} resource that you created earlier. 
3. Upgrade your kgateway installation.

Then upgrade your kgateway installation with this values file:

```sh
helm upgrade -i -n {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}} {{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}} \
  oci://{{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-path.md" >}}/charts/{{< reuse "/docs/snippets/helm-kgateway.md" >}} \
  -f values.yaml
```

## Verify {#verify}

Check that the proxy pods are running the custom image.

```sh
kubectl get pods -n {{< reuse "docs/snippets/namespace.md" >}} -l gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name=my-gateway \
  -o jsonpath='{.items[0].spec.containers[0].image}'
```

> You should see your custom image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example output:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```
